This video is sponsored by WorldAnvil. If two of the biggest channels in 
TTRPG YouTube decided to put together a collaborative community event where YouTubers 
of any size could participate, with everybody making videos around a central theme of the 
ocean/underwater content, and then releasing their videos throughout the first week of July… 
what might you call a community event like that? DAVY JONES: The Kraken! Welcome to Kraken Week! Ginny Di and Pointy Hat 
have used their platform to lift all ships, pun very much intended, by putting together a whole 
week where any D&D YouTubers who want can get involved can make a video on a shared theme - the 
sea! All of these videos are in a single playlist, which is in the links below, so make sure to 
check out the playlist and watch the other videos, so you can get to know some of the other Dungeon 
Tubers who you might not be familiar with! Now, when I first heard this prompt, I had a bunch of 
ideas for what I could do - and some of those I *will* wind up doing in future Kraken Weeks, 
the plan is for this to be an annual event, and that’s good, because I have a bunch 
of different topics I want to discuss in future Kraken Weeks. But maybe it’s because 
I was in the middle of making a video about villains from *another* action-adventure movie 
franchise owned by Disney, but I had one idea that called to me like a siren’s song… or maybe a 
mermaid’s shanty. Wait, that makes it sound like I’m doing something from the Little Mermaid, 
that is not the case! Well, not this year, anyway. No, today we’re looking at the Pirates 
of the Caribbean films, and specifically the villains - and we’re going to see how you can 
adapt them to your own D&D games! Because there are five excellent villains waiting for us to 
deploy them in our own seafaring campaigns! This video is going to contain spoilers for all 
five Pirates of the Caribbean films. However, if you’ve never seen these movies or 
just haven’t revisited them in a while, I strongly recommend you go back and watch the 
first three movies right now. The first film is a masterpiece, and the second and third are 
definitely messier, but they actually do hold up a lot better than I expected. At that point, 
the diminishing returns hit that franchise really hard, so you can stop after the first 
three. I couldn’t. I had to watch all five. And we are gonna strip those last two movies for 
parts so you never have to watch them yourself! Now, if you’re looking to make a pirate-themed 
campaign, you should also go to the playlist and check out Trekiros’ video - I don’t know how to 
pronounce it, I’ve never pronounced it out loud before - check out their video in the playlist 
below, it’s all about taking the trappings and themes of pirate stories like One Piece and 
creating a fun pirate-y adventure. I’ve actually been a fan of that channel for a while - I know it 
doesn’t sound that way, I don’t pronounce channel names that often… so I’m always happy to send 
some viewers toward that channel, I really like their stuff. But when you watch that video and get 
ideas for your own pirate campaign, you’re going to need some villains. So why don’t we steal 
some of the best D&D pirate villains we can? Also - I lied in the introduction. See, you’re probably not going to just drop 
these villains into your game directly as-is, because that would be distracting if your 
players suddenly had to fight a couple of movie characters. Although your mileage may vary on that 
front. I’ve certainly played in D&D games where we fought xenomorphs and weeping angels and Darth 
Vader, and if that’s the kind of game you like, then yeah, you can just pit your players against 
Barbossa and Davy Jones and call it a day. But if you’re someone like me, you sometimes want to hide 
your influences a little bit more. And besides, as we’ll talk about throughout this video, there 
are some creative choices that work way better for an action-adventure film than they would for 
a D&D game, and so we’ll need to find alternative approaches to make our villains much more fun to 
face. So today we’re gonna steal these characters, break down what is essential to making each one 
of them work, and use them as *inspiration* when building our own original, legally-distinct cursed 
pirates for our games. I know, I could say we’re “pirating” these characters for our games, ha ha, 
but I’m not fucking with the Mouse’s lawyers. The characters I’m presenting today are my own 
creations, influenced by multiple sources, including but not limited to some *archetypes* 
we see in the Pirates of the Caribbean films, among other influences and examples. Yeah, I 
think that should sufficiently cover my ass. So first things first, I want to briefly 
cover why the villains from the Pirates of the Caribbean films lend themselves so well to 
games like D&D. First, unlike the pirates from so many other pirates from other media, the 
villains in the Pirates films are explicitly supernatural. This makes it a lot easier - and 
more fun - for us to build their star blocks, because these characters have some really 
cool abilities. However, they also usually have some key weaknesses. Sometimes that’s a 
limitation they have to work around, and other times it’s a ritual that can break their curse 
and defeat them. However, as we’ll see later, that’s also going to present some design 
challenges for a few of these villains, since the way they have to be defeated in the 
films might not always work with a D&D campaign. After all, the main characters of these movies 
aren’t supernatural at all, but a good number of your player characters very likely will be, so 
that would mean your PCs will have some tricks up their sleeve that Jack and Will and Elizabeth 
just didn’t, and we have to account for that. But of course, we would not be doing this at 
all if these characters weren’t also just good villains in their own right. I’ve got a playlist 
in the description with my videos about villains, and in one of those videos, I lay out what I think 
makes a great D&D villain. Things like a clear plan, a strong motivation, agency, a distinctive 
appearance or identity, strong thematic relevance, and just being a powerful badass. This isn’t 
necessarily a checklist, you don’t necessarily need all of these for every character, but 
I’ve found these categories to be really, really helpful when determining whether an 
RPG villain works or might need work. And just about every villain we’re gonna talk about 
today hits *all* of those points. And when they might fall short, we’ll be keeping 
these concepts in mind when we make D&D villains inspired by these characters, so 
our villains will better hit those goals. The final thing I personally love about the 
Pirates of the Caribbean villains is how they represent the wild and unknown corners of the 
world. These are characters who sailed away from civilization and found cursed islands or made 
deals with ancient forces beyond comprehension. And I love any corner of a D&D setting that has 
this sort of wild, untamed wilderness element to it. It reminds me of the premise of a Points of 
Light setting, which we’ll talk about in a future video, but it basically means there are just a 
few points of civilization in a vast uncharted wilderness. And the characters in these films 
almost all represent some aspect of that struggle. Now, I know whenever Pointy Hat 
makes one of his D&D videos, he’ll wait until the very end of the video to 
basically announce the D&D PDF he’s included in the links. But I’m gonna announce mine right now 
- there’s a free PDF in my Patreon, link below, with the stats and flavor text for all five of 
these villains! Now, at some point down the road, I’m going to repost another version just for 
my Patrons and for my YouTube Members that will have original art, a better layout, and a lot 
more information than just these five villains. It’ll basically be a bunch of information 
about a region of my homebrew world - the region called the Sea of Curses, which is the 
perfect place for your seafaring campaigns! This is the first area I’ve properly fleshed out 
of my world, so it’s also going to be the first part of my world anyone gets a chance to see. 
Now, even though more information is coming soon, the Sea of Curses is probably going to 
remain pretty loose in its description, and there will be a lot of blank spots on the 
map. But that’s also the point of a Points of Light setting - there’s a lot you don’t know 
about yet, and a ton of detail yet to be filled in. You know a few landmarks, but the rest 
is wild and uncharted - and dangerous. And that is also pretty much *exactly* how you 
could describe the settings of these films. BARBOSSA: You’re off the edge of the 
map, mate. Here, there be monsters! Of course, there’s a difference between your 
setting being “mysterious” and being “confusing.” Okay, now who is the first pirate 
villain we’re going to discuss today? BARBOSSA: You’d best start believin’ in 
ghost stories, Ms. Turner… you’re in one! Hell yeah. We’re starting with one of the 
best characters in the whole franchise: Captain Barbossa, undead Captain of the Black 
Pearl, Jack Sparrow’s mutinous first mate, the man who literally *only* wanted an apple. So 
let’s start by running through everything we know about Barbossa from the film. First, we know he’s 
infamous, he supposed to be one of the most evil captains on the seas - the Black Pearl apparently 
leaves no survivors, and is at one point described as being “crewed by the damned and captained by 
a man so evil, Hell itself spat him back out.” In fact, even the environment seems to reinforce 
how evil the ship is. There’s this interesting moment where, when the Black Pearl first appears 
on the scene, the winds seem to change around the ship. When the Pearl comes into Port Royale, the 
town fills with fog. And the characters seem to think it’s strange, we see Will and Elizabeth 
reacting with some confusion, so the film wants us to think this is supernatural. It’s not 
a major detail in the film, but we’re still gonna keep this in mind, because it *is* gonna 
be a major aspect of our own cursed pirate crew. The Black Pearl has black sails 
with a bunch of holes in them, and it sails from the Isla de Muerta - the 
island of death - which cannot be found unless you already know where it is. Barbossa 
and his crew were cursed with undeath because they found and plundered a chest of cursed gold 
- Aztec gold given to Cortez to try to placate him. But the gods cursed the gold, so anyone 
who took a single piece of gold was cursed. Barbossa and his crew took *all* the pieces, 
and so *all* of the pirates were cursed. Now they turn into skeletons in the moonlight, 
they can’t die, and nothing satisfies them. BARBOSSA: The drink would not satisfy, 
food turned to ash in our mouths, and all the pleasurable company in 
the world could not slake our lust. They’re starving to death and dying of thirst 
- yet unable to die. They’re also quite horny, and that’s, you know, that’s… 
that’s a bummer, sorry, guys. The only way for them to break their curse 
was to return all the gold to the chest, along with blood from all 
of them. To break the curse, they just need the last gold coin, 
and blood from one last victim. As a character, Barbossa is a lot 
of fun. He’s a classic pirate, he’s got the voice and everything, he’s 
ruthless, but he’s also very smart. And he’s a shrewd negotiator. He’ll follow the letter 
of the deal, but not the spirit of the deal. BARBOSSA: Your return to shore was not part 
of our negotiations nor our agreement so I *must* do nothing. And secondly, you must 
be a pirate for the pirate's code to apply and you're not. And thirdly, the code is more 
what you'd call "guidelines" than actual rules. And what’s his plan in the film? Well, 
they obviously want to lift the curse, and that goal drives everything they do in the 
movie, but if they’d never come to Port Royale for the last medallion, it seems their only other goal 
is to just collect as much wealth as possible, so that once they do one day break their 
curse, they’ll finally be able to spend it all. So, let’s take all of that and figure out 
how to make this a D&D villain. First of all, because of how Barbossa and his crew are described 
as being “too evil for Hell” and all that, I considered making Barbossa someone who 
had literally crawled his way out of Hell. JACK: The deepest circle of Hell is 
reserved for betrayers and mutineers. KOEHLER: You know nothing of Hell. This would actually work really well with 
the fact that Barbossa *is* such a shrewd negotiator. The way he acts would absolutely line 
up with the idea that he’s a devil of some sort. BARBOSSA: I agreed she’d go free but it was 
you who failed to specify when or where! And in fact, in Volo’s Guide to Monsters, there’s 
advice for how gnolls can have an environmental impact before they arrive, thanks to their 
connections with demons - so there are options for omens like food and drink spoiling, 
animals becoming rabid, terrible storms, people acting irrationally angry, that sort 
of thing. And stealing something like that could feed into the changing winds and 
spooky fog I was talking about earlier. But I much prefer the concept of there 
being false rumors and misinformation around villains. Frankly, I love it when 
there’s some sort of reputation that makes the bad guys seem like the worst, most 
awful creatures to ever walk the earth, even when it turns out that some of it isn’t 
true. Like, yeah, they are still monsters, but they’re not *that* kind of monster. I think 
that’s fun. It is tricky to get that right, so I’ll have to discuss that in another 
video some other time, but that’s why I decided not to commit to making our pirates 
literally from Hell or devils or whatever. So instead I decided to focus on two other major aspects of Barbossa and his crew 
- their undeath, and their greed. BARBOSSA: Compelled by greed we 
were, but now we are consumed by it. Like I said earlier, the pirates are literally 
just hoarding gold. In the film, they want to break the curse, so they’re specifically tracking 
down the last cursed coin. And I think that *could* work for a D&D monster - I’ve actually 
previously talked about the Kobold Press monster, the vaettir, which is an undead being that 
rises whenever wealth is taken from its crypt, and then it stalks down each coin until it 
recovers it. I specifically said I liked that, in part, because it reminded me of 
Pirates of the Caribbean. However, I think this works best for a one-off monster - 
but I think a villain needs to have more going on. If you hand the vaettir the coin, the situation 
is defused, but it can still happen again - the vaettir will rise up again if somebody 
else steals another coin. With the pirates, the players could just hand them the coin they 
need, and then just sit back and do nothing. The reason that doesn’t happen in the film is that 
they want to kill Will at the end of the film, and in fairness, in the middle of the film, it 
does seem like a *disastrously* bad idea to leave Elizabeth alone with some pirates who just got 
their curse lifted. But this is still something that your players could easily resolve - give the 
pirates the gold, give them some blood, send them on their way. That’s not really going to work for 
our purposes - we want a villain whose motivations are going to drive them into conflict with other 
parties, not one you could conceivably sit back and ignore for a while. Oh sure, they’d go back 
to their regular pirating lives once they’ve lifted the curse, but then they won’t be undead 
pirates anymore, and that doesn’t help us either. Strangely, finding the solution for their 
motivation actually came when I figured out what their new curse origin should be. 
Because the way their curse works in the film, they cannot be killed as long as they’re cursed. 
And that would actually be a bummer for your D&D players - you just don’t want to keep hitting 
something and successfully making contact but not rolling any damage, it feels cheap and unfun. And 
the players won’t know what they’re supposed to be doing differently, so they’ll probably get just 
frustrated. However, the film kind of implies that the pirates can still be dismembered and disposed 
of that way. After all, these pirates are blown apart, so if they’re not dead, that’s officially 
just become a *them* problem. But here’s the thing… your party is extremely likely to have a 
method of blowing up their enemies, especially if they happen to be, you know, 5th level or higher. 
So ironically, that makes our undead pirates a lot *weaker* then they’re supposed to be, because 
functionally, they won’t feel immortal if you can just take them out with a fireball like you 
could with anything else. So the trick is finding a way to justify their undeath while still making 
them a challenging but not totally overwhelming threat for low- or maybe medium-level characters. 
And I think I found just the way to do that. So let’s bring these pirates into 
the moonlight and reveal them for what they really are - some interesting 
creatures with a lot of potential. And now let’s put them back in shadow, and 
see what happens when we… *flesh* these characters out. Please hold your 
awards until the end of the video. Now like I said, I didn’t have time to draw art 
for this video, even though these characters *are* completely original and my own intellectual 
property. So instead, for each of these segments, I’ll just use some clips from whatever random 
movie happens to be nearby or happens to be in a file on my hard drive. Oh, I actually have copies 
of all five “Pirates of the Caribbean” films on my hard drive for some reason. I mean, I guess 
we could use those for now, it'll have to do. The legend of the Red Sky begins with 
Obirilvix, the Ivory Storm, a terrible dracolich that menaced the sailors of the Sea of 
Curses for years. They say his breath could set the sea on fire, and his wingbeats sent clouds 
of sulfurous ash into the air. But eventually, the sailors and island residents were able to rise 
up, sending a group of adventures into battle with the dracolich - and these heroes were able to 
vanquish the monster! Luckily for Obirilvix, as a dracolich, his body would reform next 
to a particular chest of gold, which had been enchanted to contain a part of his soul - so as 
long as it was undisturbed, he would soon have a physical form once again. However, unbeknownst 
to the Ivory Storm, the pirate Captain Solomon Rask had learned the location of the dragon’s 
lair. So while the heroes fought the dragon, the crew of the Red Sky took advantage of the 
opportunity and plundered the dragon’s loot. By the time they reached the hoard, the dragon had 
already been slain, and his spirit was returning to his cave, to begin forming a new body. But with 
his enchanted gold filling the pirates’ pockets, the dragon’s spirit was divided, and absorbed into 
the pirates. They took on the curse of undeath, and now they fly under a new flag - a 
Jolly Roger, but with a dragon’s skull. They say that a sulfurous fog precedes the 
Red Sky, making some believe that the ship sails from Hell itself. However, when the Red Sky 
bears down on you and the wind is in its sails, you can still hear the beating wings of the 
undead dragon that cursed the crew. Now the Red Sky raids ships and settlements, gathering 
up gold and bringing it back to their hoard. If you asked them, they could not tell you why 
they do this. Perhaps they’ll insist they’re saving the gold until the day the curse is 
broken… but in truth, they make no effort to break their curse. Instead, they gather 
and hoard whatever wealth they can find, unknowingly driven by the fragments of the Ivory 
Storm’s soul that still linger within them. I think those guys sound pretty cool! And they 
don’t just have to be rudderless pirates looking for gold - maybe they’re trying to get a 
priceless art object the players are hired to protect. Maybe they’ve got their eye on a magic 
item in the possession of the party. Maybe they’re chasing a treasure map, like in Treasure Island. 
Maybe they’ve been hired to perform some task, and they’re actually working for some 
other foe or faction. The point is, they don’t have to be one-note, there’s a 
lot you could do with them - but they’re also still quintessentially classic pirates, they’re 
still just sinking ships and searching for gold! There is a central cursed chest in their lair, 
which was the source of the Ivory Storm’s lich magic. Unlike in the film, I don’t think 
it’s an ongoing curse for anybody who takes a coin at this point. Obviously 
that’s a huge plot point in the film, when Jack Sparrow takes a coin and 
faces Barbossa in his undead form. BARBOSSA: So what now, Jack Sparrow? Are 
we to be two immortals locked in an epic battle until judgment day and trumpet sound? Hm? JACK SPARROW: Or you could surrender. But that’s actually why we’re not going 
to make the gold curse persistent. It levels the playing field with the pirates, which 
reduces the pirates’ effectiveness as villains, and it also makes the players way too powerful 
if they leave the pirate cave with a cursed coin each. So the curse only took hold because 
they took those coins at that specific time. The pirates cannot be permanently killed unless 
the chest full of cursed treasure is destroyed. Which brings up an interesting question… What 
about the final cursed coin? Is that still in play? Well, my feeling is that it’s a fun 
plot detail, but it depends what you want to do with the story. You could have one rogue 
coin still out there and send the party on a quest to go find it, so they can bring it back 
to the pirates’ lair and destroy the treasure, thus lifting the curse. Or you could decide 
there’s a coin hidden somewhere out there, so when your party destroys the gold in the 
lair, the curse doesn’t lift, and your party has to figure out how to find the last coin. 
Or you can just keep all the gold in the lair, so once the heroes arrive, they can just 
take care of these pirates, and they can be one-and-done bad guys. It ultimately depends 
on what you think will best serve the story. Now, Barbossa gave us a lot to work with, but 
surely Barbossa is the best, most interesting, most nuanced villain in the franchise, right? I 
mean, we’re not gonna do better than him… right? DAVY JONES: Do you fear death? 
Do you fear that dark abyss? All your deeds laid bare? All your sins punished? This is my job, I get to talk about these movies 
for my job, I have the best job in the world. Okay, first of all, I have to give a shout-out 
to the Wonderful World of Darklords - they’re a podcast that adapts Disney villains 
into Ravenloft Darklords, I’m gonna do a full video about that podcast in the future 
when I eventually more videos about Disney, probably in a couple of years when my kid is 
old enough to watch the movies themselves, but right now the Wonderful World of Darklords 
*does* have a video in the playlist below breaking down Davy Jones as a Ravenloft Darklord, as a 
preview of their upcoming full episode about him, and its a great video. And they discuss 
something that is also gonna make this part of this video a little bit of a challenge… 
because Davy Jones has a lot going on. First of all, he’s sort of a real character in 
pirate folklore, the idea that dead sailors wind up in Davy Jones’ locker was a thing. 
Throughout the film, he’s essentially referred to as the Devil. And it’s appropriate 
- he appears to the survivors of shipwrecks and offers them a chance to save their lives. 
Well… to extend their lives. Through a deal. DAVY JONES: Join my crew, 
and postpone the judgment. He also has a pretty strong reaction 
to seeing a sailor holding a cross, almost like he hates all forms of religion. I 
think that’s just meant to show that he doesn’t like people who have strong enough convictions 
to reject his offer, but we’re gonna get a lot of inspiration from that moment for our Pirate 
Captain, who is, again, completely original! In the film, Davy Jones the captain of the Flying 
Dutchman, another ghost ship from real legend, which in these films can also sail beneath 
the waters. He can also command the kraken, which can sink an entire ship on its own. It 
also seems like he makes deals to, I guess, grant requests in Faustian bargains. It’s revealed 
in the second film that Jack made a deal so Davy Jones would raise the sunken Black Pearl from the 
depths of the sea and make Jack the Captain, but after thirteen years, Jones would come and claim 
his soul. He also catches Jack in a loophole. DAVY JONES: You’ve been captain of the Black 
Pearl for 13 years. That was our agreement! JACK: Technically, I was only captain for 
two years, then I was viciously mutined upon. DAVY JONES: Then you were a poor 
captain, but a captain nonetheless. Have you not introduced yourself all 
these years as “Captain Jack Sparrow?” When Jack’s time comes, Jones sends a harbinger 
- Bootstrap Bill - who curses Jack with the Black Spot. In Treasure Island, the Black Spot was a 
card to tell someone they were marked for death, and here it serves a similar function, although 
it also seems to lead the Kraken to you. Although it’s not 100% clear, the kraken destroys 
three ships in the film and Jack is only on one of them. Clearly also Jones has no 
trouble sending a harbinger to find Jack before he even has the spot, so it’s a little 
ambiguous but that’s what we’re gonna go with. Speaking of Davy Jones’ crew, they’re fish 
people! And coral people! And one guy has a wheel sticking out of him! They essentially 
look like they’ve been reclaimed by the sea, and/or they are literally just fish people, 
they’re kind of a hodgepodge of ideas. He and his crew can teleport from one ship to another, but 
they only can do it in the one scene, or at least they only seem to, so we’re probably not gonna 
worry about that too much for our stat blocks. We also see Davy Jones’ Locker, which seems 
like a physical place you can actually sail to if you sail off the edge of the world. 
The locker itself seems to be a desert with a bunch of rocks that are actually crabs, 
though it’s possible that’s just Jack Sparrow’s personal Hell, to have the Pearl beached 
and be all alone with his own thoughts. But Davy Jones’ backstory is where things really 
jump up a notch. He fell in love with the goddess Calipso, and she tasked him to ferry the souls 
of those who die at sea into the afterlife. Something I’m only realizing now as I’m writing 
this script is that the Greek goddess Calipso is probably recruiting him to specifically fill the 
job that Charon used to have, or at least take over the Department of Nautical Deaths. As part 
of his new role, he can only set foot on land for one day every ten years. When he returned to be 
with her for their one day together, she wasn’t there - because she was as wild and changing as 
the sea. He told the pirates how to bind her to human form, and they cast a ritual that made 
her a human, and made the seas more easy for them to tame. Davy Jones cut out his own heart and 
literally locked it away, so he wouldn’t have to feel heartbreak for Calypso anymore. He abandoned 
his mission and stopped bringing the souls of the dead to the afterlife, instead just recruiting 
desperate sailors who were right about to die at sea, trapping them into servitude aboard his ship. 
That’s when he and his crew began to change into fish-monstrosities who get less and less human as 
time goes on, until his crew literally fuses to the ship itself. It’s because Davy Jones abandoned 
and corrupted his mission. The only way to kill Davy Jones is to find the chest he buried and 
stab his heart - but if you do so, then your own heart will need to get cut out, and you’ll take 
Jones’ place. The Dutchman must have a Captain. Okay, so there is a *lot* going on here, and 
it surprisingly all works together pretty well. But some of it works better for a film than a 
roleplaying game, and some other aspects are going to be redundant with the other villains that we’ll 
talk about later today, so we are gonna have to make some hard cuts. Again, if you want the most 
authentic version of Davy Jones for your game, check out the Wonderful World of Darklords episode 
about him, that is very much their goal - and a lot of the stuff I don’t think would work that 
well for a typical D&D villain works great for a Darklord, like the fact that he literally 
doesn’t take damage unless you stab the heart, or the fact that killing him means your 
character is stuck filling his role, that’s *so* Ravenloft. For this video, 
we’re using him as a jumping-off point for an original villain, capturing a lot 
of what makes him work but also deviating where I think it’ll make for a stronger 
character in a higher variety of adventures. So let’s carve out the heart of this 
character and see what makes him work in D&D. In seaside taverns all across the Sea of Curses, 
one name is whispered in hushed tones: Old Hobb. Sailors and pirates tell tale of this monstrous 
man who raids shipwrecks, snatching up survivors and forcing them to serve on his grim vessel, the 
Despoiler. His hulking ship seems to be crafted out of coral, with sails made of seaweed, and it 
can sail just as well across the sea as it can below the waves themselves. They say the Despoiler 
has a particular hatred for vessels that serve one of the temples or otherwise operate on some sort 
of holy mission - for everyone knows Old Hobb despises the gods and will hunt their followers 
if he gets wind that they’ve set sail on his seas. When Old Hobb wants to kill a specific sailor, 
he will send a harbinger to find them - a crew member who can still pass for a normal human 
will join the same crew and get close enough to the target to infect them with the Black Spot, 
a curse that draws the kraken to the victim. He’s also been known to make deals with desperate 
souls - either through draconian contracts, or through high-stakes wagers over dice games. 
Old Hobb plays fair, but he’s also a skilled gambler - old sailor’s wisdom says, “Once Old Hobb 
picks up his dice, you’ve already lost the game.” Legends claim his greatest asset was won in a 
wager - his control over the horrible monster known as the kraken. They say he encountered 
the colossal horror in the depths of the ocean, but forestalled his own death by 
challenging the kraken to some sort of bet. Whatever happened on that dark day 
is still unknown, but now the kraken must answer when Old Hobb calls… and it will 
ravage any ship he sets it loose upon. But while every sailor knows his name, very 
few know how Old Hobb came to be. For in truth, he used to be a pious man - Captain William 
Hobb was a loyal servant of Jasari, the Wild Goddess. She actually chose him to serve as her 
champion, executing her will in the region we now know as the Sea of Curses. For years, he sank the 
ships of settlers and colonists who would try to claim and tame the seas and the islands, keeping 
nature wild and unspoiled for Jasari. However, his love for his goddess was all-consuming, and 
he spent ten years secretly building a temple in her honor on an uncharted island - a glorious 
cathedral dedicated to the Wild Goddess. After all, believers frequently construct small 
shrines in the hidden corners of nature, but no one had ever built her an entire temple 
- truly, what more glorious gift could there be! When it was completed, he brought Jasari 
to the island and showed her his gift. The rage of Jasari was swift and terrible. The 
Wild Goddess hates nothing more than she hates construction and civilization encroaching into 
the wild reaches of the world, and she saw this temple as a tremendous insult - an attempt to 
civilize and restrain her. Hobb insisted that the temple was a glorious gift, merely his way of 
expressing his love, and he could not understand how it was antithetical to… to her very nature. 
But despite his protests, she summoned a hurricane and destroyed the temple, flooding the island. 
Captain Hobb was pulled into the waves, where he would have drowned. However, he encountered 
an aboleth in the water, one who cursed him and attempted to enslave him as a thrawl. But the 
aboleth read Hobb’s anger toward the gods. And so instead of becoming a simple thrall, Hobb made a 
deal to act as the aboleth’s partner - an avatar of its terrible will. The aboleth gifted Hobb with 
the powers to corrupt other sailors, and crafted a vessel from the sea. Hobb carved out his heart and 
locked it away, as a rejection of his former bond with Jasari. This act also made him unkillable 
as long as the heart still beats, for if Hobb is ever slain in battle, he will reappear next to 
his still-beating heart when the sun next sets. Now Old Hobb fiercely hunts down any 
ships associated with temples or gods, and snatching up the survivors of any other 
shipwrecks he finds. Survivors are forced to serve aboard the Despoiler for ten years, 
and then they vanish below… into the clutches of the aboleth. No one knows what happens to 
them once they enter the aboleth’s domain… but whatever long-term plan the aboleth is working 
on, Old Hobb continues to bring him new pawns. Hey, I think that’s a pretty cool D&D 
villain, what about you? The heart basically functions just like a mummy 
lord’s heart - once Old Hobb is slain, he’ll regenerate a new body next to the heart. 
Yeah, it’s the same thing as the undead pirates appearing next to the chest, but it’s 
also how the mummy lord’s heart works, and it’s how aboleths work, they’re reborn in 
the Elemental Plane of Water when they die, so it’s very fitting and thematic and appropriate. 
And by the way, it’s also how devils work, and arguably how vampires work as well, so it 
is kind of D&D’s solution for eternal life; the enemy still takes damage and they can be 
destroyed but they’re just reborn later on. As for the kraken, there are some great videos 
in the Kraken Week playlist talking about how to use the kraken and improve upon them for your 
game. I know that I would essentially treat this as a force of nature - once the kraken has been 
sent toward your ship, you have a certain number of rounds to evacuate the ship before the kraken 
hits. Once it starts attacking the ship itself, you have to evacuate, and that can be a 
whole skill challenge. In the free PDF, I’m not going to have any rules for that, 
I just don’t have the time to make those, but down the road, in the polished version? Yeah, maybe I’ll write up some guidance for how 
to run that scenario in your own games. Now, I know that was the villain 
you were excited to hear about, but we’ve got three more villains to discuss, 
and I had to sit through two more Pirate movies, so you *have* to keep watching. 
Please. It has to have been worth it. Okay, so after the third Pirates film, the 
creators had a problem - how exactly were they going to follow up two incredible 
villains like Barbossa and Davy Jones? BLACKBEARD: And what fate befall mutineers? Now, we know the answer to that, 
do we not? Mutineers HANG! Introducing Blackbeard, the famous real-life 
pirate - who was actually only in the public eye for like a year before he died, that’s 
pretty wild. Now, we’re probably not going to put the real Blackbeard into our D&D 
games, even though we could, since he was a real person who actually lived. I mean, 
you *could* just put Blackbeard in your game, but you’re really rolling the dice that people 
will only think of the scary, notorious pirate you’re trying to present, and not Our Flag 
Means Death, which has a very different tone. BLACKBEARD: Hello, everyone, I’m Blackbeard! PIRATE: Huge fan, sir. Huge! And that’s of course assuming they 
don’t picture Hugh Jackman as Blackbeard from the movie Pan! Just kidding. 
Nobody thinks about the movie Pan. BLACKBEARD and CROWD: (Singing) With 
the lights out, it’s less dangerous! Here we are now, entertain us! When we meet Blackbeard in the fourth Pirates 
film, we find out that he was supposedly beheaded, but that was just a rumor, obviously he’s still 
alive long after when he died in real history. And now he’s known as “the pirate all pirates fear.” 
He has turned his officers into zombies, but that… kind of doesn’t matter? They’re not 
mindless drones like we think of zombies, they’re more like thralls, just compliant 
to Blackbeard. There’s no great moment where something should have killed them but doesn’t 
- I think it only happens, like, once or twice. They’re just henchmen. They’re absolutely 
the most boring pirate crew in the franchise. He can also use his magic sword to control the 
rigging of his ship - and even other ships, like the Black Pearl. He makes a working voodoo 
doll of Jack at one point, and it’s revealed that he shrank the Black Pearl down and put it in a 
bottle. The boat can also breathe fire out of the front, which again, Blackbeard commands with his 
sword. Weird. Just a lot of weird stuff going on. His First Mate is his newly-discovered daughter, 
Angelica, who is Jack’s mischievous love interest in the film. However, she seems to genuinely want 
to save Blackbeard’s soul. She even urged him to spare the life of a Christian missionary, who 
falls in love with a mermaid in some of the worst scenes in the movie. However, Blackbeard’s current 
quest seems to have started really recently, when his quartermaster - who can see the future, but 
is also a zombie? Anyway, the quartermaster said Blackbeard will be killed by a one-legged man, 
sending Blackbeard to find the Fountain of Youth. Which is kind of like receiving a death threat, 
and then trying to stave it off by buying a bunch of multivitamins. Like, yeah, not a bad idea in 
general, but how exactly is that supposed to help with the threat of murder? Blackbeard’s sword also 
makes no sense. He can use it to control ships, so we don’t really know why he has a crew working 
the rigging if he can just control the whole ship with a wave of his sword - but also, he gets into 
this sword fight with Barbossa at the end of the film, and he has a magic sword, but it doesn’t 
matter at all, it plays no role in the film, and that’s just weird. Blackbeard kind of feels like 
the writers threw in ideas that might be cool, kind of like they obviously did with Davy 
Jones. But with Davy Jones, each new detail either helped reinforce his core tragedy, or was 
just immensely cool. There’s nothing really that connects Davy Jones’ mission to transport the 
dead to the afterlife with the fact that he now controls the kraken, but setting aside the fact 
that he looks like he comes from the depths of the sea and that helps us accept that he can work 
with the kraken… well, even without that aspect, the kraken is just cool as hell, so we’re 
willing to come along for the ride, even if it’s not technically the logical extension of the 
concept we’ve been presented with. Here, we have kind of the opposite. Blackbeard is clearly an 
expert in magic, so why wouldn’t his ship be able to breathe fire? But it also only happens, like, 
once or twice, and then it’s never relevant again, it doesn’t play any role in the plot of the movie. 
And that kind of keeps happening with Blackbeard. Even something like the voodoo doll is used twice, 
so, okay, Rule of Threes, what’s the payoff for the doll? Well, it just washes on shore on the 
island next to Angelica in a post-credits scene, miles - or, I guess, leagues from where we 
last saw it. There’s no actual payoff for it within the movie, just this promise that maybe 
someday it’ll be important in a different film. So, I don’t think all of Blackbeard’s powers and 
traits hang together quite as well as they could - so let’s use our magic sword to tighten up the 
rigging a bit, and see what we can come up with. For decades, the Charnel House has 
been the most feared ship on the Sea of Curses. A huge vessel with human 
bones grafted onto every surface, making it resemble a floating ossuary. 
Crewed by ghouls, and run by ghast officers, there is only one man who can bend these undead 
creatures to his will: Captain Samuel Gray. Samuel Gray is a paranoid man who never 
leaves the ship when they go to port, fearing assassination from his many enemies. When work 
is required in town, he sends his First Mate, his daughter Eliza. A master of disguise 
and deadly assassin in her own regard, Eliza is fiercely loyal to her father, but she 
has begun to suspect that his mind is being overtaken with fear, and it is getting harder 
and harder to quell his paranoid delusions. In an effort to guide her father to see reason, 
Eliza brought a priest of Mori on board, to act as his council. However, 
Mori is a god of dueling natures, and their priest, Brother Alec, is 
just as likely to advise Gray to stay his blade as he is to urge Gray 
to swing his sword and strike true. Gray is a gifted spellcaster, and 
uses his sword to channel his magic, castin spells that he can use to control a 
ship’s rigging, shrink opponents or objects, create huge bursts of flame, 
and of course, animate the dead. He seeks methods that can be used to 
extend his life - hunting for magic items, seeking spells and rituals that postpone death, 
and slitting throats in the name of Carsos, the god of war and undeath. His fear of his 
final judgment is irrational and all-consuming, and perhaps makes him the most dangerous 
pirate to cross paths with… after all, one should be very careful never to stand 
between a desperate man and his goal. That seems like a really cool and compelling 
character! He’s looking for ways to extend his life, and a lot of the stuff he can do in 
the film can be represented with some wizard spells - and the cutlass is his spellcasting 
focus. I think we’ve condensed him down into a more compelling and cohesive character! And he 
doesn’t just feel like a retread of the characters we’ve already seen in the other movies. I mean, 
can you imagine if one of these villains was just repeating a lot of what we’d seen from 
other, better villains in the same franchise? SALAZAR: Dead men tell no tales. This is my job, I have to talk about this movie 
for my job, I have the worst job in the world. Okay, let’s be clear, Salazar is probably 
the best part of this film. And there’s a lot to like about him. For the first time, 
the supernatural enemy isn’t a pirate - he was a pirate hunter. He was known as El 
Matador Del Mar, “the Butcher of the Sea.” BARBOSSA: Hunted and killed hundreds of men– SALAZAR: No no no no no no. 
Men? No. No no. Pirates! That’s a great line, that tells 
us so much about this guy. Where he starts to lose me is through the 
supernatural stuff. Because it’s a lot of the stuff we’ve seen before. He and his crew 
are characterized more as ghosts rather than zombies or skeletons, and they do have a 
really interesting design. They look like corpses of a shipwreck - which they basically 
are, actually - with Salazar’s hair and clothes constantly drifting as if he’s underwater. 
Each of them have different levels of decay, with a few crew members literally 
missing huge pieces of their bodies, yet still somehow able to function, that’s 
a great detail! However, something about the way Salazar looks just feels weird, like in some 
shots, his head is somehow too big for the rest of his body. Javier Bardem is doing great work, 
and the CGI in general *is* really excellent, but there’s something about the look 
that just isn’t coming together for me. Their ship, the Silent Mary, is also kind of 
alive, it can rise up and collapse on top of another ship. So, it’s kind of a mix of the 
Dutchman and the kraken itself. I just don’t like how this is presented as a decisive attack, 
like the kraken, where this ship landing on your ship just completely destroys your ship. 
But I think it *would* be cool if it just latched onto a ship, and that’s how the ghost crew 
boarded other vessels. The ship’s figurehead comes to life at one point, and that’s another cool 
power that maybe is maybe just executed really poorly in the film. The Silent Mary is preceded 
by undead seagulls, which is fun and creepy and campy - yeah, it’s kind of a repeat of the undead 
monkey, but I think this one actually works. They also have some undead sharks on board, which they 
can basically deploy to attack their enemies. This *should* be awesome, but the scene they’re used 
for is just such a downgrade from earlier action scenes in the franchise, and it’s a bummer. 
I mean, it’s not the sharks’ faults, I guess. The ghosts can run on water, but like Davy Jones, 
none of them can actually set foot on dry land. However, they can possess people in order to 
go on dry land, although they can’t leave their victim’s bodies once they possess someone. 
The fact that we learn this, like, in the last fourth of the movie is pretty ridiculous, 
there’s absolutely no set-up before it happens, just spectacularly bad storytelling in this movie. 
Despite my frustration with possession in D&D, they’re gonna keep this power, though it won't 
be a permanent effect, because that’s dumb. Honestly, what drags Salazar down the most is 
all the Young Jack Sparrow bullshit. Salazar was killed by a young Jack Sparrow, but 
before he died, Salazar referred Jack as a “little sparrow,” so it seems like Salazar is the 
first person to refer to Jack as “Jack Sparrow…” literally moments before he and his crew crash 
and die, so, like, what are we even doing. Also, after young Jack kills Salazar, that’s when Jack 
gets all his costume pieces for the first time, which is deeply stupid. Like, this is actually one 
of the better scenes in this movie and yet it’s also everything wrong with modern blockbusters in 
the worst way, it’s actually kind of impressive. So, let’s drive Captain Salazar into the 
Devil’s Triangle and blow up his ship, then use weird red light beams to 
reanimate parts of him and his crew, in order to come up with something we 
can put into our games. The transitions are getting spottier. Much like 
the movies we’re talking about. Admiral Alastair Lorenzo sailed the seas 
in a naval campaign, attempting to claim and settle the Sea of Curses in the name of 
the kingdom of Varagos. However, his ship, the Lorentus, was lost at sea. Over time, 
the kingdom of Varagos eventually crumbled, and their wars, their heroes, and even 
their entire culture was forgotten. But Admiral Lorenzo did not forget. The 
wreckage of the Lorentus still sails, still manned by the ghosts of her crew. Lorenzo 
won’t be satisfied until the seas are once again safe for sailors to fly the flag of Varagos, and 
each of the islands is claimed by a nation that he will not accept no longer exists. Until that 
day comes, Lorenzo’s war will never be over. Like I said, there’s a lot here to like. 
I won’t deny that there’s a lot of the MCU version of Ronan the Accusor in this version of 
the character, someone fighting a war that has already been settled. I think this also ties into 
the ideas of what makes ghosts interesting. Wait, is this secretly an episode of my 
Core Fantasy of Monsters series? Yes, I think it is! What is it that makes a ghost a 
ghost? It’s not just the fact that they’re undead, or that they’re ethereal - D&D has lots of 
monsters who are both. But in our world, we have a really specific idea for why ghosts 
exist - usually because they have unfinished business. There’s something they wanted to do 
in life, but they didn’t get the chance to do so before they died. So now they’re not just 
bound to linger until the work is done - but in a lot of my favorite ghost stories, they’re 
bound to repeat the same tasks over and over, fruitlessly, unable to move on and get what they 
want because the world has changed too much, their unfinished business can only remain impossible. 
And I also love stories where the ghost can never understand that what they want is impossible - no 
matter how hard you try to convince them that they have to move on and let go, they just can’t. So 
the players will have a choice. They can either kill the ghosts and make sure they never return, 
which *is* doable but it’s not easy… or they have to find some way to fool Admiral Lorenzo into 
believing that the war is over and his nation was victorious. And that won’t just be a simple 
Charisma check - he’ll want undeniable proof. How will your players do that? I have no idea. 
I know how *I’d* try to do it if I was a player, but I certainly won’t tell you here, because 
coming up with your own answer is the fun part. Like I mentioned before, this PDF will be fleshed 
out with art in the future - and I can just tell you now, my art for these ghost sailors will 
remove the corpses entirely, and just leave their empty rotten uniforms running around, like the 
Gentleman Ghost from DC Comics. You can’t do that in a movie because you want to see Javier Bardem’s 
face, he cost a lot of money to put in the movie, you wanna see him. But I think a D&D game 
can more easily get away with just a spooky voice and some body language - because really, 
that’s all we’re doing as Game Masters, anyway. And that’s it, those are the four supernatural 
villains in the franchise. Wait a minute. That’s four villains, but I said there were 
five villains in this video. But we’ve covered all of the major supernatural 
enemies in the franchise. Who’s left? BECKETT: There’s something to knowing the exact shape of the world and one’s 
place in it, don’t you agree? No doubt you’ve discovered that loyalty 
is no longer the currency of the realm, as your father believes. It’s just good business. I’m afraid currency is the currency of the realm. It's nothing personal, Jack. 
It’s just good business. Oh, that’s right - the real bad guys 
in these movies are capitalism and colonialism! In the first movie, the secondary 
antagonist is Commodore James Norrington, essentially representing British rule and 
influence over the Caribbean. But he is essentially a good man. He’s lawful good, he’s 
not interested in personal ambition or glory. JACK SPARROW: The Black Pearl. The last 
real pirate threat in the Caribbean, mate. How can you pass that up? NORRINGTON: By remembering that I serve 
others, Mr. Sparrow, not only myself. The primary reason we dislike him in the film 
is because he’s technically an antagonist, and he’s courting a woman who seems to be at 
*least* 15 years his junior. And Elizabeth doesn’t seem to have a lot of say in the matter, 
thanks to societal pressures. Now, as an audience, we don’t like it but we’re able to understand it 
as a product of the time the film takes place in. But that’s actually why I cannot recommend you 
give this personality flaw to any NPCs in your game if you also want them to basically be 
decent people. Despite the fact that a lot of our D&D games are superficially modeled after 
bygone eras, your players will still bring their modern sensibilities of love and marriage into 
your world, so this dynamic eventually leading to a marriage proposal once she comes of age is 
not something your players will just forgive as a product of the culture, and they won’t 
accept that he might still be a good man. But, oddly in the movie, he is essentially 
a good man. By the end of the film, he’s learned to be more respectful 
of the people around him, he learns to give Elizabeth more autonomy and respect 
Will - though he still does so through the very patriarchal concept of essentially handing 
her off to Will, but once again, he’s a product of his culture. And he even learns to be not 
quite so unforgiving in his pursuit of Jack. NORRINGTON: Oh, I think we can afford 
to give him one day’s head start. If you want to feature an antagonist like this 
in your own game, I would definitely recommend you lose the age difference romance angle, 
and they don’t even need to be a romantic interest of any of your player characters 
- they could just be someone that maybe one of the player characters grew up with, and 
now they’ve taken a different turn in life, they’re n law enforcement or whatever 
the best equivalent would be. But then, in the sequel, we get Lord Cutler 
Beckett, the leader of the East India Trading Company. If you’re not familiar, the East 
India Company is a real company from British history. They exported cotton, sugar, indigo dye, 
spices, salt, tea, opium, uh… I’m forgetting one, hold on. Opium… salt… indigo dye, I said 
that one… oh, that’s right, human beings. BECKETT: I contracted you to deliver cargo 
on my behalf, you chose to liberate it. JACK: People aren’t cargo, mate. That’s from a deleted scene that makes it very 
clear in the text that Beckett is, in fact, in the slave trade, for audience members who 
weren’t up on their British history. They cut it out, the whole scene is actually completely 
different in the final cut, it’s much more focused on plot than character, which is a shame, but 
it happens. Oh, and in the real world, the East India Company is also directly responsible for 
the British Empire’s presence in India. Now, I’m not a historian, I can’t even pretend to 
understand the chain of events that led to that, or the power this one company had. 
I mean, I guess if I rack my brain, I could *maybe* imagine a company 
with the power to shape domestic and international policy for a western empire, 
but… man, I’d really have to rack my brain. These films actually do give us a taste of how 
much power the company has. Beckett isn’t just issuing warrants and arresting people, but he also 
has the letters of marque, granting a full pardon to… well, the king has already signed them, but 
the name on them is blank, so Beckett can use them to dangle a pardon in front of any character he 
wants. Which means he told the King, “I want you to pardon someone, and I’m not gonna tell you who 
it is,” and the King said, “Yeah, sure, this is a normal amount of power for a business to possess.” 
But look, this is just escapist fiction, right? We don’t live in a world where companies can 
tell kings what to do, because here in the USA, we don’t have kings! At least we didn’t until this 
past Monday, thanks Supreme Court, cool decision. Okay, now that we have all the context, 
let’s discuss this character himself. Beckett is cordial and civil, and he never 
lies, except through omission. But truthfully, that’s not because he’s such a great and 
reasonable guy - it’s because he doesn’t have to. He holds all the cards. He can literally sit 
across the table from you and show you his hand, and then place his bet, because nobody 
has the cards to call him out on it. DAVY JONES: I cannot be 
summoned like some mongrel pup! BECKETT: Apparently, you can. Just the coldest shit in the world. 
Beckett does not give a fuck that he’s talking to the Devil himself. 
Because he’s already beaten him. BECKETT: This is no longer your world, 
Jones. The immaterial has become… immaterial. And that’s what makes Lord Cutler Beckett such a 
fascinating villain to discuss. In the first film, nobody believed in undead pirates or curses 
or magic. But Beckett doesn’t question any of that. He knows magic is a thing. But his 
goal is to tame the seas. He’s going to, effectively, colonize the pirates’ waters. BECKETT: The world is shrinking. The blank edges of the map filled in. Jack must find 
his place in the new world or perish. Beckett represents the ticking clock of progress, marching in on the pirates and threatening 
to end their way of life. In a lot of ways, he represents the existential threat to 
everything our main characters hold dear. BARBOSSA: World used to be a bigger place. JACK: World’s still the same. 
There’s just less in it. Specifically, Beckett is looking for a 
couple of magic items, a few MacGuffins that will give him the ability to control 
Davy Jones and hunt down the last pirates. The British soldiers in the fifth movie 
represent the same, they’re looking for the Trident of Poseidon because it grants 
them the power to control everybody else. SCARFIELD: Only the British Empire 
will hold the power of the sea. But once again, that’s just a pale echo of Beckett 
from films 2 and 3. Beckett also has an enforcer, Mr. Mercer - no relation - and he works great 
as a physical avatar to represent Beckett in scenes where it would make no sense for him 
to show up himself. And in the fourth film, the British are represented by Barbossa, who is 
now a privateer, and that could also work really well in our games - a former pirate who flipped 
on his fellows due to the pressure and possibly with no other choices. Barbossa is also a 
totally different character in that movie, but he would actually still make a really decent 
villain - he makes Gibbs tie his own noose, he collects poison tree frogs and costs his sword 
in their venom, he keeps alcohol in his peg leg, he is a great character - who is brand new to 
the franchise - and he’s a foil for the heroes. And so these archetypes will also be represented 
in my pirates PDF. Because I love the creeping threat of capitalism and colonialism in this 
setting, it makes for some really interesting conflict. So I included a faction: The Doriad 
Imperial Enterprise. I promise, I thought about each word of the company name really carefully, 
they’re all there for a reason, and the fact that the acronym spells “DIE” actually *is* a 
coincidence. That being said? I’m not sorry. So that’s it, five awesome villains you can drop 
directly into your swashbuckling pirate game, available for free. However, the final document 
will have a lot more. It’ll have a faction of pirates, a home base like Tortuga, maybe a witch 
like Tia Dalma or the witch who pops up in a dungeon in the fifth movie. There will be magic 
items, like a compass that doesn’t point north, and charts that lead to uncharted islands, among 
other things. Basically, anything you might see in the Pirates films that you might want to 
steal for your own D&D game! All that will be in the document. Everything except for the Paul 
McCartney cameo. You’re on your own with that one. JACK: Uncle Jack! UNCLE JACK: Jackie boy! How’s it going? JACK: Can’t complain, really. You? UNCLE JACK: I’ve been waiting in here all morning 
for a beating. But the service is terrible. I also want to thank *everyone* who supports 
me on Patreon - it’s been 90 degrees every day for weeks, I’ve got a new baby, I’ve got 
three dogs, the AC has been working overtime, and that is *literally* only possible 
thanks to my Patreon supporters. Of course, if you’re not able to support 
financially, that is absolutely fine - you can subscribe and ring the bell, that actually 
does help the channel a lot! Please check out the other videos in the Kraken week 
playlist, it’s in the description, go thank Ginny Di and Pointy Hat for putting 
this community event together! I’m also already thinking about what I want to do for next year’s 
Kraken Week video, I’ve got some ideas and a year to think about them. Join my Discord server to 
hang out with other awesome people, sign up for my newsletter to catch my latest updates, and a 
reminder I just did a video about other lessons we can learn from a few MCU villains, make 
sure to watch that if you haven’t already, it is my best video I’ve ever made, maybe? 
Until next time, play fair and have fun! PINTEL: And I don’t think it’s “kracken,” 
anyways. I always heard it said “krayken.” RAGETTI: What, with a long A? PINTEL: Uh-huh. RAGETTI: No, no, no, no, no. “Krocken” 
is how it’s pronounced in the original Scandinavian. And “kracken” is closer to that. 